And for example, we've already addressed this
question about integration of the services. As
far as you're concerned, it was a very good move to
integrate the services and have integrated
units. What about women in the service? Now, women
have expanded rapidly since the 1960s. And now I
guess they're, I can't remember what percent. I
think about 12% was it to the military? What's your
opinion? I think it's good. I really do. Because I
think there are many, many billets in the military
that can adequately be filled by women. I don't see
women in a combat role. I don't want to see women
flying fighter aircraft, even though they're
capable of doing it. I can see women flying
transport aircraft. I think they're probably
easy, probably 10% of the spaces in the military
can be adequately filled by women. I'm all for it. I
really am. If we do have selective service in the
future, do you think women should be drafted?
Well, with all the pressure on ERA, they want to do
their thing. Yeah, I think so. I really do. I think
some of them would feel slighted if they weren't
drafted. Okay. What about the idea of the draft
itself? Do you support reinstituting the draft?
Do you think the voluntary service has failed? I
think the voluntary service to a great extent has
failed. It's improved a little bit recently. But I
think that to an overall extent, I think the
volunteer strength has failed because we don't
have the level of competency in our enlisted
personnel today in the volunteer army that we
ought to have. The weapon systems and everything
has become exceedingly more complicated and more
sophisticated. Even our logistics systems where
we're preparing a requisition
on a computer where we're getting a computer
transmitted requisition and a printout And
everything is very sophisticated, and even
automated warehouses. Well, you've got to have
somebody with a level of intelligence and a level
of competency that can respond to that.
Otherwise, you're going to create chaos. So I
think that the volunteer army from that
standpoint has failed. The volunteer army has
been responsible, and I'm not speaking in a
prejudiced vein when I say this, for bringing in a
real high percentage of black personnel who just
have not had maybe the opportunity for education
and training that their that the average cut of the
white young man has had. For the result, we've got a
lot of uneducated blacks in the service that are
just not capable of running even a sophisticated
vehicle like a tank that's got a little computer in
it. The new Abrams tank has a computer. The fire
control is computer directed. And hell, you've
got to have somebody with at least a high school
education to understand and operate the thing.
High school plus a 12-week tech military
schooling course to be able to even function the
thing. So I think that we ought to have a draft. And I
think it's got to be better run than it was before.
We had too many possibilities for deferment to
where it was strictly a poor man's draft or
somebody that wasn't in graduate school or
college that could get a deferment. And those are
tough questions. And they're unpopular
questions. But that's my basic feeling about
them. Okay, let's ask some of the same questions
about what's happened in Texas A&M during the
1960s, which happened, of course, under the
Rutter regime. How about ending the mandatory
Corps of Cadets? What's your feeling toward that?
I think sooner or later it had to come with the
attitude of the country, you know? And because we
went a long way anti-military, a lot of schools
that had ROTCs for a hundred years abandoned them
like Harvard, places like that. I think it had to
come sooner or later. I hated to see it come, but I
think it had to come. And I don't really
I wish they would make a stronger effort to have a
stronger core and a little bigger core. But I guess
the core now is about the same size it was when I was
in school. We had about 3,000, a little under 3,000
when I was in school. It's about 2,300 now?
I think it had to come sooner or later. What about
admitting women are blacks? I think it's okay.
I think the growth at Texas A&M has been, maybe it
hasn't had time to digest the growth that they had,
but it's been dynamic and massive. And I think it is
really on the threshold of being one of the major
institutions in the country from an academic
standpoint and many other standpoints. Finally,
let's talk about one other topic that the
military's written volumes on, and that's
leadership. The what? The military's written
volumes on, and that's leadership. Yeah. If you
were going down to Texas A&M and invited to give the
Corps of Cadets a lecture on how to become a leader,
What would you tell them? What would I tell them?
What I'd tell them first, they have to be able to
lead themselves. They have to have, they have to
have values that they feel that they can live by.
They have to have the courage of their
convictions. They have to have a sense of humility
and a sense of feeling to respect the dignity of
everybody that they're associated with and
everybody in their command, if they're going to
command. Because every mortal, I think, has a
personal human dignity that should be respected.
And then I think they've got to exude
effort and extra effort and above all I think
you've got to be honest and you've got to have
personal integrity it's hard to define you know
what the principles of leadership are but I think
if you have your own values in order and know what
you want to do with yourself I believe you can lead
others if you can lead yourself. What type of
leader were you? Well, I think I was a pretty good
leader. A lot of people would say, I know many times
I'd have guys tell me, God damn, you're sure a
salesman. You can, in a meeting, you can just sell
these guys and make them do anything and they'll
just follow you to hell. You can make a million
dollars being a salesman. And maybe I was a
salesman, maybe I was a con man, but I didn't feel
like it. I felt sincere in what I was doing. And of
course there's some old cliches about
leadership. Don't ask anybody to do anything that
you wouldn't do yourself. I think that's a little
bit true, but sometimes as a leader, particularly
in the military, You are put in a position
sometimes of asking people to do things that you
can't do yourself or you're not in a position to do
yourself. So maybe that cliche doesn't apply
universally, but I think basically a leader ought
to be one that could easily say, follow me or
something like that. When looking back over your
military career, Was there a certain position
that you thought was the highlight, a certain
place where you felt that this is, this is it, I'm
really doing my greatest accomplishments are
here at this, at this moment? Was, was, what was
that? What job was that or when was that? In
Germany, the Gießen, particularly during the
airlift.
Yeah. Looking back over your life, everybody has
accomplishments and everybody has
shortcomings. In your military career, what do
you think were the accomplishments and what were
the shortcomings? Something that you couldn't
finish the job or you just couldn't get done or
maybe it wasn't your fault, but you just couldn't
do it.
it's hard to say. Like I say, I use an expression
from Churchill, I think that during the Berlin
Airlift was my finest hour as far as that's
concerned. But I think the biggest
accomplishment I made
was really, and it may not, we haven't, we've
hardly talked about it, but I think it was aviation
fuel safety. I really believe that. And my name is
not on that many regulations that have been
perpetuated and my name is not associated with
that many manuals because no military man's name
is in any manuals, but I think I really made an
impact on the safety of aviation fuels and the
safety of all fuels, but particularly aviation
fuels, that has made a significant impact in
military aviation, safety in military aviation,
and the spill-off in commercial aviation. Are you
sure? I think that's really the biggest If I was
going to look back on it, like maybe in the
hereafter, St. Peter would say, well what was the
best thing you did? I think that's what I'd tell
him. What about shortcomings?
The shortcomings, the biggest frustration I had
in the shortcomings was in Japan, where those old
Japanese facilities, they were beautiful, but
they were antiquated in that there was only one
six-inch line into and out of these huge
underground storage tanks. And to discharge a
tanker into one of those things, particularly a
modern, and we began to get the first of the super
tankers in those days, the Orion class that had
300,000 barrels on them, it would take us 72 hours
to discharge that tanker because of just one entry
into it only one line coming off whereas the
demurrage it costs six seven thousand dollars a
day for that tanker to sit there and pump off So I
immediately started to scrounge pipe and
scrounge everything and put more entries into the
tanks so that we could put four or five hoses on
these tankers. And I finally got several of the
terminals worked up to where we could discharge
one of those little mini super tankers in about 12
hours to where the crews would just rebel because
they'd generally think they're gonna have three
or four days of liberty after they got from the
Middle East to shack up in Japan and we were ready
for them to turn around in 12 hours and then I
replaced a pipeline on the beach and but I ran
constantly into into command problems they
wouldn't wouldn't let me use the pipe and this
regulation and that regulation and several times
i violated the regulations and they'd send the ig
down and make an investigation and he'd always
side with me and it was a very frustrating thing and
i was not able to finish what i wanted to do over
there to really make them into efficient
petroleum handling operation I was able to get
about four of the terminals converted and they've
since in the four, five, eight, ten years
afterwards I left there about putting out finally
on contract and everything they were able to
modernize some of them but at a considerable
expense and we could have done it with our own
in-house personnel because we had it all
engineered. We had figured it in the hydraulics of
it and everything and The excess pipe was there,
left over from Korea, and all we had to do was get it
over there and use the GIs and the Japanese to do it.
And this was the most frustrating thing that I had.
Well, we've talked about your early years, your
education, military career, and something about
your retirement, your views on the military and on
A&M. Is there something else that I've missed? No,
no. I... I believe, and I'm kind of a workaholic, I
guess. I've been called that by my wife and others.
Well, that's obvious because you're one of the
very few men that I've met who have been retired
that have a full-time job, especially a man who's
70. I'll be 70 in December and I plan to
I would like to continue, the good Lord willing,
what I'm doing now for, you know, five or six more
years. I know men who are generals and are 55 and
they play golf three times a week and that's all.
Most of them will be dead in about another five or
six years, too. Well, that could be. But I've met,
I've interviewed a number of those men and they
don't seem to have very many interests. I feel
sorry for them because they're They're out of the
mainstream, and they're making no contribution
to the society today. And it can be very
satisfying, as well as rewarding.
And I'm not pretentious or anything, but I've done
very well. And it's been very financially
rewarding. And I'm not crazy about money.
I enjoy it. I spend it wisely and I give to the arts. I
support the arts and charity. I really feel sorry
for these guys that retire and sit on their ass and
think the world owes them a living. I'd like to say
that, and I can say as of this point in time right
now, that since I've retired, I've paid on the
average of at least twice as much in income tax as
I've received in retired pay. And last year, it was
considerably more than that.
And it's
kind of a good feeling.
That's unusual for a man to say that paying high
taxes is a good feeling, especially when we have so
many people in Washington today denying that they
have... It's a good feeling to know that you're
able to do it and that you're able, that you have the
good fortune and the good health to be able to do it.
To be so productive. To be productive enough and to
enjoy what you're doing and still not be chagrined
by it. And I don't... don't you know I think of
course I think some taxes and can get to where
they're prohibitive and almost confiscatory but
I think sometimes it's it's a privilege to be able
to pay to pay taxes if you're able to make it and make
it fairly and squarely so I don't want to do
anything that's immoral or illegal And I have not
done anything that's immoral or illegal. And this
is the way that I want to conduct my business. It's
the way I tried to conduct my military career. But I
really feel sorry for those goddamn senior guys
that retire. And some of them, nearly all of them,
want to get a job right after they retire. But they
want to be handed a job making $50,000 a year.
sitting at a big fancy desk in a big fancy office
with a few papers coming in and out and not getting
their hands dirty. This is what their thought is.
And you can't do it. And I was handed a job like that
with Scott Paper, but I was constantly on the go and
down in the plants and everything. And it was kind
of tough to come into an organization at the vice
president level, when guys that had been working
for 20 years that weren't vice presidents, it was
kind of tough. And it was a lot of strained
feelings. And I had to make friends and influence
people. I had to use Dale Carnegie techniques. And
I succeeded in a lot of cases. There were two or
three guys I never did make much headway with. But I
enjoyed it, and I think it really primed me be able
to go then to a small business.
Well, thanks a lot for this interview. Okay, well
it's been fun. I haven't had the opportunity to
purge myself of some of these thoughts in a long,
long time, and I hope it will sound interesting
enough for you to use. Oh, yeah.